# Flight Delay Prediction & Operational Insights
Analyzing flight data offers invaluable insights into the operational dynamics of the aviation industry, providing stakeholders with crucial information to optimize resources, enhance efficiency, and improve customer experience. By exploring delay and cancellation patterns by airline, time of day, and location, we can gain a macro-level understanding of the challenges and opportunities within the aviation ecosystem.

The primary objective of this project is to explore and analyse the various aspects that contribute to flight delays or cancellations. We aim to identify trends for various airlines and airports and provide insights into the root causes of flight delays and cancellations.

The analysis in this report focuses more on the macro factors and a bird-eye analysis of the various domains where we would like to pay more attention to: Airlines, Time of the Day and Airports. In this project, we will dive deeper into the patterns for each of these factors and understand if there are any particular areas for improvement. Based on our current exploration, we see that the major delays and cancellations are prevelant in regional airlines, while the well-known internationally operating airlines seem to working with efficiency. However, this is a preliminary observation and more analysis will provide better insights into the actual patterns and functions of the airlines. For the time of day analysis, we see that most of the delays occur later in the evenings and we would like to further figure out if these delays and cancellations are caused due to controllable factors like scheduling and planning or uncontrollable factors such as weather conditions like storms. We also take a look at the most frequent routes to understand flyer behavior. This will help improve the operations of airlines for these routes and even provide the airports with some insights so that they can be better prepared to avoid delays and cancellations.
